---
title: test-kitchen using OpenNebula
slug: ch
date_published: 2015-09-30T09:10:31.770Z
date_updated:   2015-09-30T09:16:01.162Z
---


#Introduction

   Test Kitchen is a test harness tool to execute your configured code on one or more platforms in isolation. 
   
   We're going to use Test Kitchen to help us write a simple Chef cookbook, complete with tests that verify that the cookbook does what it's supposed to do.
    
  To initialize the opennebula driver that it has a static and declarative configuration in `.kitchen.yml` file.
         
####Installing Test Kitchen 
      
Installing Test Kitchen from RubyGems goes like this:
           
    $ gem install test-kitchen


Now let's verify that Test Kitchen is installed. To get the currently installed version we type:

    $ kitchen version
    
Test Kitchen version 1.0.0



####Creating a Cookbook
      
 We already have some cookbooks in github repository.

    $ git clone https://github.com/megamsys/chef-repo.git
       
We can create a cookbook by using knife. `knife` is a tool used to configure most interactions with the Chef system. We can use it to perform work on our workstation and also to connect with the Chef server or individual nodes.

The general syntax for creating a cookbook is:

    $ knife cookbook create cookbook_name

###Kitchen::Opennebula

  A Test Kitchen Driver for Opennebula.
  
#####Installation

Download and install latest ChefDK.

	$ wget https://opscode-omnibus-packages.s3.amazonaws.com/ubuntu/12.04/x86_64/chefdk_0.8.0-1_amd64.deb
    
Install chefdk
	
    $ sudo dpkg -i chefdk_0.8.0-1_amd64.deb

Please add bin locations to your PATH:

	/opt/chefdk/bin/:/opt/chefdk/embedded/bin (unix)

`NOTE :` Reopen console or reload your env PATH

Install kitchen with opennebula driver: 
 
 	$ gem install kitchen-opennebula --no-user-install --no-ri --no-rdoc

####Configuration

**opennebula_endpoint**

URL where the OpenNebula daemon is listening. The default value is taken from the ONE_XMLRPC environment variable, or http://127.0.0.1:2633/RPC2 if unset.

**oneauth_file**

Path to the file containing OpenNebula authentication information. It should contain a single line stating "username:password". The default value is taken from the ONE_AUTH environment variable, or $HOME/.one/one_auth if unset.

**template_name**

Name of the VM definition file (OpenNebula template) registered with OpenNebula. Only one of template_name or template_id must be specified in the .kitchen.yml file. The default value is unset, or nil.

**vm_hostname**

Hostname to set for the newly created VM. The default value is driver.instance.name. For example vm_hostname :xxxx

**username**

This is the username used for SSH authentication to the new VM. The default value is local.

**memory**

The amount of memory to provision for the new VM. This parameter will override the memory settings provided in the VM template. The default value is 512MB.

**wait_for**

This variable is used to override timeout for Fog's common wait_for method which states that it "takes a block and waits for either the block to return true for the object or for a timeout (defaults to 10 minutes)".
 
 For more details to visit [testkitchen/kitchen-opennebula](https://github.com/test-kitchen/kitchen-opennebula)

Now we'll add Test Kitchen to our project by using the init subcommand:
    

    $ kitchen init --driver=kitchen-opennebula
      create  .kitchen.yml
      create  chefignore
      create  test/integration/default
     Successfully installed kitchen-opennebula-0.1.2
     Parsing documentation for kitchen-opennebula-0.1.2
     Done installing documentation for kitchen-    opennebula after 0 seconds
    1 gem installed


   The kitchen init subcommand will create an initial configuration file for Test Kitchen called `.kitchen.yml`.
   
   While Test Kitchen may have created the initial file automatically, it's expected that you will read and edit this file.
   
     driver:
       name: opennebula
       opennebula_endpoint: 'http://127.0.0.1:2633/RPC2'
       oneauth_file: ./.one_auth
       template_name: TEMPLATE_NAME
       vm_hostname: HOSTNAME
       username: USERNAME
       memory: 2048
       wait_for: 1000
    
    provisioner:
       name: chef_solo

     platforms:
       - name: ubuntu-14.04
       - name: centos-7.0

     suites:
       - name: default
       run_list:
        - recipe[git::default]
   
  
  To see the results of our work, let's run the kitchen list subcommand:
     
    $ kitchen list
        Instance            Driver      Provisioner  Last Action
        default-ubuntu-1404  opennebula  ChefSolo     <Not Created>
        
   
   Test Kitchen calls this the **Create Action**. We're going to be painfully explicit and ask Test Kitchen to only create the default-ubuntu-1404 instance:
     
    $ kitchen create default-ubuntu-1404
     
     
   Let's check the status of our instance now: 
            
    $ kitchen list
        Instance                 Driver     Provisioner   Last Action
         default-ubuntu-1404      opennebula  ChefSolo     Created
         
         
#####Running Kitchen Converge        
 
  Now start Test Kitchen to test the cookbook
          
    $ kitchen converge default-ubuntu-1404
         
  It will create a opennebula VM and run the cookbooks in run_list
  
