---
title: Getting started with Rust
slug: rust
date_published: 2015-05-25T13:49:36.074Z
date_updated:   2015-05-25T13:49:36.070Z
---

In this we will get started with the cool language from mozilla - Rust.

We will use functional programming as far as we can. Rust supports it in an elegant way. 

###Rust

[rust](http://www.rust-lang.org/) is a systems programming language that is compiled and hence there is not garbage collection unlike Go. Hence its a super cool/fast language. It has an awesome `rubygems` like community in `crates.io`. 

The symantics are little bit different but you'll get used to it. 

###Why are we looking at rust ? 

We started out to identitfy memory optimized language for our IoT startegy. So we decided to put it action in our commandline rewrite [meg](https://github.com/megamsys/meg.git)

### Installing rust

* Ubuntu 

    sudo add-apt-repository ppa:hansjorg/rust

 	sudo apt-get install rust-stable cargo-nightly

* Arch linux
    
    yaourt rust cargo-bin

### Your first rust lang library

A rust lang library is something that can be included as a [crate](https://crates.io) in a program we build.

In this case we will pull our cli library called `rust-turbo` 

*rust-turbo*. 

Let us clone this library locally to ~/megam. 

    git clone https://github.com/megamsys/rust-turbo

	cargo clean
	
    cargo build
    
    [ram@ramwork:rust-turbo|master]$ cargo build
   	Compiling gcc v0.3.5
   	Compiling hamcrest v0.1.0 		(https://github.com/carllerche/hamcrest-rust.git#b61fef3e)
	Compiling libc v0.1.8
    Compiling glob v0.2.10
    Compiling strsim v0.3.0
    Compiling rustc-serialize v0.3.14
    Compiling regex v0.1.30
    Compiling term v0.2.7
    Compiling log v0.3.1
    Compiling time v0.1.25
    Compiling env_logger v0.3.1
    Compiling docopt v0.6.64
    Compiling rust-turbo v0.2.0   (file:///home/ram/code/megam/rust/rust-turbo)

Cool we just built our first library. 

Every project that uses `cargo` as the build tool will include a file called `Cargo.toml`

* library ? Huh ! 

The question is how do you decide if you are building a binary (executable) or a library to be includeded as a crate.

Make a change in the `cargo.toml` file include the following.

    [lib]
    name = "turbo"
    path = "src/turbo/lib.rs"


###testing

    
    cargo tests

There are bunch of tests under src/tests that are under the src directory they get run automatically. 

Use a matcher like `hamcrest` to compare the output and expected out to decide on the failure or success of your tests. 


###namespaces

In our case `cargo` will look forward towards a file called `turbo/lib.rs`. The details of `lib.rs` are

    #![deny(unused)]
    #![cfg_attr(test, deny(warnings))]

    #[macro_use] extern crate log;

    #[cfg(test)] extern crate hamcrest;
    extern crate docopt;
    extern crate glob;
    extern crate rustc_serialize;
    extern crate term;
    extern crate time;
    extern crate libc;
    
    pub mod util;
    pub mod core;
    pub mod turbo;

Let us examine the above. 

* `extern crate` indicates our intention to use an external library eg: logging, docopt (options command line parsing) etc.

* `pub mod util` indicates that we intend to include a module named util.rs or util/mod.rs. 

If you see our source code we have 3 folders `util`, `core`, and `turbo.rs` 

##You first rust executable


In this case we will pull our cli exec we are building called `meg` 

*meg*. 

 Let us clone this library locally to ~/megam. 

    git clone https://github.com/megamsys/meg

	cargo clean
	
    cargo build

 The built binary will be under targets. so run it to your hearts content. eg:
 
 	 meg version
     
We have covered setting up rust, and get going with a rust library and an executable. Stay tuned on other design specifics using rusty lang.. Adios.     
